The little mosquito-delicate dancing hum in the air, the electrical murmur of a hidden wasp snug
in its special pink warm nest. The music was almost loud enough so he could follow the tune.
He felt his smile slide away, melt, fold over, and down on itself like a tallow skin, like the stuff
of a fantastic candle burning too long and now collapsing and now blown out. Darkness. He was
not happy. He was not happy. He said the words to himself. He recognized this as the true state
of affairs. He wore his happiness like a mask and the girl had run off across the lawn with the
mask and there was no way of going to knock on her door and ask for it back.
Without turning on the light he imagined how this room would look. His wife stretched on the
bed, uncovered and cold, like a body displayed on the lid of a tomb, her eyes fixed to the ceiling
by invisible threads of steel, immovable. And in her ears the little Seashells, the thimble radios
tamped tight, and an electronic ocean of sound, of music and talk and music and talk coming in,
coming in on the shore of her unsleeping mind. The room was indeed empty. Every night the
waves came in and bore her off on their great tides of sound, floating her, wide-eyed, toward
morning. There had been no night in the last two years that Mildred had not swum that sea, had
not gladly gone down in it for the third time.
The room was cold but nonetheless he felt he could not breathe. He did not wish to open the
curtains and open the french windows, for he did not want the moon to come into the room. So,
with the feeling of a man who will die in the next hour for lack of air,.he felt his way toward his
open, separate, and therefore cold bed.
An instant before his foot hit the object on the floor he knew he would hit such an object. It was
not unlike the feeling he had experienced before turning the corner and almost knocking the girl
down. His foot, sending vibrations ahead, received back echoes of the small barrier across its
path even as the foot swung. His foot kicked. The object gave a dull clink and slid off in
darkness.
